Add numeric literal changes to beta 4 release note (#1391)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-release: release-notes/swan-lake-beta4-release-note.md

}
```

> - A spec deviation was fixed when declaring out of range float value. With current behaviour this gives a compile time error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Attempting to use an out of range float value where the applicable contextually-expected type is `float` will now result in a compile time error.
```

> - Spec deviation related to numeric literal have been corrected according to the language specification. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Spec deviations related to identifying the types of numeric literals have been fixed. 
```

> If the numeric literal is not include float type suffix or  decimal type suffix and not a hex floating point literal the type of that numeric literal will be based on following rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the numeric literal does not include the float type suffix or the decimal type suffix and it is not a hex floating point literal the type of the numeric literal will be based on following rules.
```

1. If the literal is a floating point literal, then the possible basic types in order of preference are `[float, decimal]`; otherwise they are `[int, float, decimal]`.

> 2. If there is a contextually expected type C and there is a possible basic type N such that N & C is non-empty, use the most preferred such type.

Reviewer 2: Can we simplify this. This seems advance for an average users.

Author: Can't we write it in this way?
```
If there is a contextual expected type and there is a basic type int, decimal or float in contextual expected type, Use the most perrered type in the order of int, float or decimal.
```

Reviewer: We need to mention the intersection bit IMO (https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release/pull/1391#discussion_r749879040).

Also, I don't think it covers the finite type scenario.

```suggestion
2. If there is a contextually-expected type `C` and there is an intersection between `C` and the possible numeric basic types identified above, use the most preferred basic type.
```

3. Otherwise, use the most preferred possible basic type.

> 

Reviewer 2: Shall we add few example. This will clarify for normal user.

> 1. If the literal is floating point literal then the possible basic types in order of preference are float or decimal otherwise they are int, float or decimal.
> 2. If there is contextual expected type and there is a basic type int, decimal or float in contextual expected type, Use the most perrered type in the order of int, float or decimal.
> 3. Otherwise, use the most preferred possible basic type in the order of int, float or decimal.

Reviewer: Shall we use the rules from the spec issue. For example, point 2 here doesn't talk about the intersection.

```suggestion
1. If the literal is a floating point literal, then the possible basic types in order of preference are `[float, decimal]`; otherwise they are `[int, float, decimal]`.
2. If there is a contextually expected type C and there is a possible basic type N such that N & C is non-empty, use the most preferred such type.
3. Otherwise, use the most preferred possible basic type.
```

}
```

- Attempting to use an out of range float value where the applicable contextually-expected type is `float` will now result in a compile-time error.

```ballerina
public function main() {
    float x = 945e99876; // Will now result in an error.
}
```

- Spec deviations related to identifying the types of numeric literals have been fixed. 

> If the numeric literal does not include the float type suffix or the decimal type suffix and it is not a hex floating point literal the type of the numeric literal will be based on following rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the numeric literal does not include the float type suffix or the decimal type suffix and if it is not a hex floating-point literal, the type of the numeric literal will be based on the following rules.
```

1. If the literal is a floating point literal, then the possible basic types in order of preference are `[float, decimal]`; otherwise they are `[int, float, decimal]`.
2. If there is a contextually-expected type `C` and there is an intersection between `C` and the possible numeric basic types identified above, use the most preferred such type.
3. Otherwise, use the most preferred possible basic type.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

type Foo 1f|1d|2d;

public function main() {
    int|float|decimal l = 10;
    decimal|float m = 5.5;
    int|decimal n = 5.5;
    io:println(l is int); // prints true
    io:println(m is float); // prints true
    io:println(n is decimal); // prints true

    Foo y = 1;
    io:println(y is float); // prints true
    io:println(y is decimal); // prints false

    var q = 10;
    var r = 5.5;
    io:println(q is int); // prints true
    io:println(r is float); // prints true
}

> ```

Reviewer: The following is no longer allowed, right? IMO, we need to specifically mention it.

````suggestion
```

The following now results in a compile-time error since the type of the literal is considered to be `float` and `Foo` does not contain `float` `2`.

```ballerina
Foo z = 2;
```
````
